---
title: "Introduction to Statistical and Data Sciences"
layout: page
description: Introduction to Statistical and Data Sciences
---



## MATH 116: Fall 2016

* **Instructor:** [Albert Y. Kim](http://community.middlebury.edu/~aykim/) - Assistant Professor of Statistics
* **Email:** [aykim@middlebury.edu](aykim@middlebury.edu)
    + I will respond to emails within 24h, but not during weekends.
    + Please only email me with administrative and briefer questions as I prefer addressing more substantive questions in person.
* **Class Location/Time:**
    + MWF 11:15–12:05 in Warner 506 and R 11:00-12:15 in Sunderland 202.
    + You do not need to inform me of absenses. Please consult your peers for what you missed.
* **Office Hours:** Warner 310 or the math lounge just outside. Feel free to come to the [MATH 216]({{ BASE_PATH }}/pages/teaching/courses/MATH216/2016-09.html) office hours as well, but those students get priority then. 
    + M 2:30-4:00 and W 1:00-2:30
    + MATH 216: M 1:00-2:30 and W 2:30-4:00
    + Or by appointment





## Course Description and Objectives

This is an introductory probability and statistics class where a conceptual understanding of the material will be stressed.  Goals of this course include:

* Expose students to statistical concepts, including sampling, data visualizations, confidence intervals, hypothesis tests, and regression.
* Give students experience manipulating and analyzing data using the R statistical software package.
* Introduce the theory underlying statistics, including probability, distributions, the central limit theorem, etc.
* Develop statistical literacy.
* Tie in the curriculum to current events, demonstrating the importance statistics plays in society.





## Materials

#### 1) Textbook

OpenIntro Statistics 3rd Edition by Diez, Barr, and Cetinkaya-Rundel.  This textbook is available
    + Online at the [OpenIntro webpage](https://www.openintro.org/stat/textbook.php?stat_book=os) in both
        + a standard PDF format
        + a tablet friendly PDF format
    + In print at
        + the Middlebury bookstore
        + [CreateSpace](https://www.createspace.com/5641475)
        + [Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/194345003X/)


#### 2) Computing and Software

Instead of a local desktop version of the RStudio integrated development
environment (IDE) for R, we will be using the cloud-based RStudio Server
interface, which you can access via 
[`go/rstudio`](https://rstudio.middlebury.edu/). Note if you are off-campus you 
must first log into the [Middlebury
VPN](http://mediawiki.middlebury.edu/wiki/LIS/Off-campus_Access).





## Evaluation

There are four components to your final grade: homeworks, quizzes, midterms, and the final project.

**Item**  | **Weight** | **Notes**
------------- | ------------- | -------------
Quizzes | 5% | Lowest score dropped. Relevant reading/video posted on Moodle the week prior with quiz taken at the beginning of lab.
Homeworks | 35% | Lowest score dropped. Lab HW assigned/due on Thursdays, written HW assigned/due on Wednesdays.
2 Midterms | 30%  | In class.
Final | 30%  | TBA


#### 1) Homeworks 10%

#### 2) Homeworks 10%

#### 3) Homeworks 10%

#### 4) Homeworks 10%

#### Policies

* **Quizzes:**
    + There will be no makeup quizzes.
* **Homeworks:**
    + Homeworks are due at the beginning of lecture/lab.
    + Unstapled homeworks and homeworks without names/section numbers will be penalized 25%.
    + Please do not email submissions; ask a classmate to print it for you.
    + Late (defined as after lecture ending) submissions will be accepted up to 2 days after the due date at a 25% penalty per day. If you submit late, your graded homeworks might be returned late as well.
    + You need to show all work to receive full credit.
* **Midterms and Final Exam:**
    + No extra-credit work to improve exam scores after the fact
    + All exams are cummulative
    + There will be no make-up exams nor rescheduled exams, except in the following cases:
        + serious illness or death in the family only if documentation is provided.
        + athletic commitments or religious obligations only if documentation is provided and prior notice is given.
          In such cases, rescheduled exams must be taken **before** the rest of the class.
    + All midterms/exams will require a scientific calculator. Smartphone calculators will not be accepted.
* **Honor code:**
    + While I encourage you to discuss homeworks with your peers, you must submit your own answers and not simple rewordings of another's work.  Furthermore, all collaborations must be explicitly acknowledged on your submissions.
    
    
    
    
    
## Schedule

All problem sets and solutions will be posted on the course [Canvas](https://middlebury.instructure.com/courses/293) page.

<!-- <iframe width='620' height='960' frameborder='0' src='https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kYNq8ID5HtVoTFOC08U2oRshhREGhw-Nc8Zy-eWYoPM/pubhtml?gid=5&amp;single=true&amp;widget=true&amp;headers=false'></iframe>-->





## Academic Accommodations for Disabilities

Students with documented disabilities who believe that they may need accommodations in this class are encouraged to contact me as early in the semester as possible to ensure that such accommodations are implemented in a timely fashion. Assistance is available to eligible students through Student Accessibility Services. Please contact Jodi Litchfield, the ADA coordinator, at [litchfie@middlebury.edu](litchfie@middlebury.edu) or 802.443.5936 for more information. All discussions will remain confidential.
